# royalsocietypitch
An online repository for collaboration and the sharing of research ideas

I propose the generation of a new Royal Society run website, which could act both as a base for looking for collaborators across universities, as well as a repository for the sharing of research ideas. The former aspect would be a more integrated and streamlined version of what occurs already via word-of-mouth and/or email-lists. Scientists with a research idea which requires skillsets beyond their own (e.g. across an interdisciplinary nature, such as a neuroimager whose own/group project idea requires a post mortem and genetics expert), could upload the research idea onto this website, providing as much information as, for instance, already seen currently in PhD proposals. Through keyword searches or automatic emails, other scientists whose interests lie in that field could then see the idea and comment on it and/or agree to collaborate. Having a unified site for this, not limiting it to just PhD-size projects, making it easier to collaborate across universities and allowing comments and contributions from the wider community, will allow for a more inclusive and efficient research process. 

In addition, such a website could also be used to fulfil another function; acting as a repository to freely share research ideas that, compared to the above, the scientist knows they will not pursue themselves, being beyond their direct field of study and research interest. These ideas are often generated through researchers attending seminars, reading papers, considering the application of methods to fields beyond their own, or ideas from old projects that the researcher has now moved away from. There is likely an untold number of fantastic ideas sitting on pieces of paper or stored on research computers that will never see the light of day because, despite researchers wishing them to be freely shared, there does not exist such a resource to bring them to the attention of those who could pursue them. The process for this function of the website would be the same as the first, with researchers uploading their idea – though indicating it is for free-sharing rather than looking for collaborators and with likely more specific details on methods and datasets which the uploader is proposing - and with others being able to comment and advance the idea. Hopefully, it would soon come to the attention of someone who feels they can take on this suggested study. Though there is no demand for this person to recognise the contribution of the initial uploader or significant contributions made by commentators (them having released their ideas knowing it is beyond their sphere of study, but merely wanting to see it answered), the current shift toward open practices in science as well as potential incentives from the Royal Society (e.g. having this recognised on submissions to Royal Society journals like Open Science) would make it likely their contribution is recognised on any papers forthcoming and/or might lead to further collaboration. This website would thus greatly increase links between research groups and would introduce new elements to the research culture, such as through this online, collaborative and open production and expansion of potential scientific studies.  

